Die bleed Story

In the heart of Upper Franconia, in the quiet textile-weaving town of Helmbrechts, bleed has its origins – and remains rooted there today. The label was founded in 2008 by local skateboarder Michael Spitzbarth who had worked for a few years as a freelancer for various clothing companies after finishing his studies in Textile Design. During this time, he got a good insight into the ways of the textile industry which made it clear to him that something had to change. Nature had already bled enough and it had to stop. With this thought, both the name and the brand were born.


bleed - 100% ECO, 100% FAIR, 150% YEAH!

With the support of friends and family, Michael got to work on the first collections. His goal, both then and now, was to lead people of all ages to the green way of living using good style, without disapproving or pointing the finger. 10 years on, bleed has established itself firmly on the green market and its team has grown. Our team is now over 10 in number. Together we design, test and market clothing which has to both fulfil our requirements for sport and look good in everyday life. From the very beginning, we have always been in search of special materials. We also use these materials in unconventional ways for innovative, functional and extraordinary products. Through cooperations with organisations who share our passions for nature, people, animals and sports, we can pursue our mission and support each other.

What drives us...

Alongside a lifestyle characterised by sustainability, we're all connected to each other through one other passion. Everyone behind bleed, no matter how young or old, big or small, male or female, has a shared love: sport. Whether its skating, surfing, snowboarding, skiing, biking, longboarding or running. Sport belongs in our life like water in the sea and nature is our self-professed favourite playground. So we don't just allow our life's blood and passion to flow into our collections, we also bring in various experiences from the world of sport.

In the end, to be sure that all of our products meet our own high expectations and therefore also satisfy our customers, they must first of all pass our own tests. This means either being worn on the board in the city skate park, jogging through the Helmbrechts Wood, climbing in Franconian Switzerland or surfing at beaches around the world. bleed products are our constant companions and have to withstand any situation, even braving the bad weather.


"To inspire a sustainable lifestyle that excites and easily integrates into our daily life."